Docs: add blog post for iceberg-rust 0.8.0 release (#15221)
apache/iceberg: site/docs/blog/posts/2026-02-02-iceberg-rust-0.8.0-release.md

[changelog]: https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#v080---2026-01-06

`iceberg-rust` is a native Rust implementation of the Apache Iceberg specification, providing high-performance libraries for reading, writing, and managing Iceberg tables in Rust applications and through Python bindings (`pyiceberg-core`).

<!-- more -->

## Release Highlights

### V3 Metadata Support

This release introduces [support for Iceberg V3 metadata format](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1682), enabling `iceberg-rust` to work with the latest version of the Iceberg table specification. This includes support for V3 manifests with delete file content and enhanced metadata handling.

### Enhanced DataFusion Integration

The DataFusion integration received significant improvements:

- **INSERT INTO partitioned tables**: [Native support](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1827) for inserting data into partitioned Iceberg tables
- **Partition column projection**: [Implemented project node](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1602) to efficiently add partition columns during query execution

> - **Partitioning node**: [Added partitioning operator](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1620) to define output partitioning for better parallelism

Reviewer: Partitioning Node? May have meaning for others but not sure what this means

Reviewer 2: It's basically shuffling, but in datafusion they call it repartitioning

There is a diagram in the [original design](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/issues/1540) and I hope it makes better sense. I'm not so good at terms and won't be able to help too much to decide the best term to use here

> - **Partitioning node**: [Added partitioning operator](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1620) to define output partitioning for better parallelism

Author: ```suggestion
- **Repartitioning operator**: [Added partitioning operator](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1620) to define output partitioning strategy based on the Iceberg table schema and metadata
```

how about this?

- **Partition-aware sorting**: [New `sort_by_partition` operator](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1618) to sort input data by partition values
- **SQLLogicTest integration**: [Added comprehensive testing framework](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1764) for DataFusion operations
- **TaskWriter**: [Implemented writer interface](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1769) for DataFusion execution

### Advanced Delete File Handling

`iceberg-rust` now has substantially improved support for Iceberg's delete files:

- **Shared delete file caching**: [Optimized performance](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1941) by caching and sharing delete files across multiple readers
- **Mixed delete types**: [Support for both position and equality deletes](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1778) on the same FileScanTask

> - **Partial schema deletes**: [Handle equality delete files](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-rust/pull/1782) containing only equality columns

Reviewer: Not sure what this means?
